
- We looked up people who are regarded as influencers in data science.
  This yielded a handful of people but we narrowed them down and curated a list containing those we think are in the top ten based on:

Their Business and entrepreneurial activities
Keynote deliveries in conferences
Regular blogposts and tweets (that do not sound like rocket science)
Social media Followership
  
- We then looked closer at their frequent activities which includes their blogs, linkedIn posts, and tweets, we realised that all their  
  interests/activities followed a similar trend.

- So, for deeper insight, we chose to focus on two of them: Andrew Ng and Kira Radinsky. 

Andrew Y. Ng: Co-Founder of Coursera; associate professor at Stanford University. Former head of Baidu AI Group, He is the founder of the Google Brain project, which developed large-scale artificial neural networks, one of which taught itself to recognize cats in videos, Passionate about ML/Deep Learning/Speech recognition

Kira Radinsky: eBay Director of Data Science, founder and former CTO of SalesPredict which was acquired by eBay.
 			   Passionate about predictive analytics, data mining

We could retrieve Andrew Ng’s publications from arXiv, while web-scraping was carried out on the Association for Computing Machinery website for Kira Radinsky’s publications. These yielded useful information for studies. So, we extracted the abstracts from their publications so as to see what topics and areas interest them.

Data wrangling
Keyword filtering

Challenges:
JavaScript rendered websites
Information not in one place

VISUALISAIONS

We then found out that both thought leaders we selected focused on AI earlier on but later started shifting their attentions to more specific topics of specialisations such as deep learning, predictive analytics, and speech recognition. In all, they have talked about AI more than any other topic because most part of the early stages of their carrier were focused on AI only but they started focusing on more than one areas of interest simultaneously with time.

CONCLUSION

We are of the belief that drilled-down insight on the interests of the other thought leaders will yield similar results.
The list we curated is based on evidences of influence and dedicated activities these people have put towards data science, therefore, someone else can have their own list different from ours

NEXT TO ALEX

We also realised that the above findings are consistent when viewed from a wider scope such as Research publications by various authors just as Alex will show us next



aRxiv: A repository holding more than 1.5M e-print of papers in computer science, physics, statistics, etc. It is owned and managed by Cornell University. They have a well documented api endpoints that cann be queried for different kinds of information on submitted papers. They also have an R package also called aRxiv which makes querying those endpoints in R very easy.

Api: aRxiv (https://arxiv.org)
Web-scraping: Association for Computing Machinery (https://dl.acm.org)
